SCHOOLCHILDREN
1
Teacher (to one of his pupils): What are you doing, Bob? Are you learning?
Bob: Oh, no, sir. I'm listening to you.
2
Teacher: Who can name five wild animals?
Pupil: I can, sir.
Teacher: Please name them.
Pupil: A lion with four cubs.
3
Teacher: Why are you late, Johnny?
Johnny: I had to wash my neck and ears, sir, but it won't happen again.
4
Teacher: Didn't James help you do these sums, Andy? 
Andy: No, Miss, he didn't.
Teacher: Andy, are you sure he didn't help you?
Andy: No, Miss, he didn't help me, he did them all by himself.
5
One day a father whose son was a bad pupil said:
"You know, Tom, when Lincoln was your age, he was the best pupil in his class."
"Yes, Dad," Tom answered, "I know that. But when he was your age, he was the President of the United States.
6
Teacher: Nick, why are you late for school every morning? 
Nick: You see, sir, when I come to the crossing I see the sign: "School - Go Slow."
7
Teacher (angrily): Again your mother has done your homework for you!
Bob: Well, it can't be helped. My father is always so busy.
8
Teacher: Harry, your composition is good, but Dick's is the same word for word. What must I think?
Harry: That Dick's composition is also good.
9
Little Kitty went to school for the first time. When she came home, her mother asked:
"Did you like your teacher, Kitty?"
Kitty thought a minute and then said:
"Yes, I did. But I don't think she is very clever."
"How is that?" asked her mother.
"Oh," said Kitty, "I think so because she asked us so many questions.
10
A lady came upon her friend's little son walking slowly along the street.
"Hurry up, Bill!" she called. "It's already half past nine. You're late for school."
"That's all right, ma'am," he said carelessly, "school is open all day long."
11
The teacher tells the boys about a man who always swims across the river three times before breakfast. Robert laughs.
"Don't you think a good swimmer can do that?" the teacher asks Robert.
"Yes, I do," answers Robert, "but I don't see how the man gets his clothes if he doesn't cross the river once more.
12
"Come up to the blackboard, John, and answer my question," said the teacher.
"I'm sorry”-- began the boy.
"What's the matter with you?" asked the teacher. "Are you afraid of my questions?'
"Not at all," answered John. "I'm afraid of my answers.
13
Charles had just entered school.
"What is your name?" asked the teacher.
"Charles," was the answer.
"Charles what?" asked the teacher who wanted to know his surname.
"Oh, that's all right," answered the boy, "just call me Charles.
14
Tommy had just returned from his first day at school. He proudly announced that the teacher had spoken to him. 
"Well," said his father, "what did he say to you?" 
"He told me to keep quiet," Tommy answered.
15
The teacher was giving her class a test in natural history, 
"Now, Bobby," she said, "tell me where the elephant is found.
" Bobby thought a little and then answered:
"The elephant is such a large animal that it is hardly ever lost."
16
Neighbour: And how did Jimmy do at his history examination? 
Mother: Not well at all, I'm sorry to say. But it wasn't his fault. Why, they asked him about things that happened before the boy was born.
17
Tommy: I'm not going to school any more, Mum.
Mother: Why not?
Tommy: On Monday the teacher said four and four are eight. On Tuesday he said six and two are eight, on Wendesday she said seven and one are eight and today she said that five and three are eight. I’m not going back to school again until the teacher makes up her mind.
18
Emily had been to school for the first time.
"Well, darling, what did you learn?" asked her mother. 
"Nothing," sighed Emily hopelessly. "I've got to go back again tomorrow.
19
Teacher: Polly, name five things that contain milk. 
Polly: Butter, cheese, ice-cream and two cows.
20
Teacher: What do we call the last teeth we get? 
Pupil: False teeth, Miss.
21
The teacher told her pupils about the bear hibernating in winter. After explaining it to the children, she said:
"Can anyone tell me of any other animal that hibernates?" 
A little boy's hand went up, and the teacher said: "Well, Tommy, you may tell us of one.
"Father Frost," said Tommy, "only he does it in the summer time."
22
The teacher of geography was trying to teach a small boy the points of the compass. He explained:
"On your right is the East, on your left is the West, and in front of you is the North. Now what is behind you?"
The boy thought for a moment then cried:
“I knew it. I told mother you would see the patch on my trousers”.
23
"Daddy, can you write your name with your eyes closed?"
"Of course I can, my son."
"Well then, will you sign my school report?"
24
Mother: What are you doing, Dick? Dick: I'm reading a very interesting book.
Mother: Well, but what about your lessons? It's already late. 
Dick: But don't you know, Ma, that it's never too late to learn?
25
"Do you know the ABC?" the teacher asked one of the schoolgirls.
"Of course I do," answered the girl.
"Then tell me, please, which letter goes after 'A'?"
"All the others," was the answer.
26
Nick showed his daybook to his grandfather.
"When I was at school, I always had a 'five' in history and you have a 'four," said the grandfather.
"You see, Grandfather, when you were at school, history was shorter," was the answer.
27
One day Pete came home from school and said:
"I was the only pupil who could answer the teacher's question." 
"Very nice, Pete. And what was the question?" asked his mother.
"The teacher asked: 'Who broke the window in our classroom?"" Pete answered.
28
Teacher of history: When was Rome built? 
Alec: At night.
Teacher (in surprise): Why, who told you that?
Alec: You did. You said not long ago: "Rome wasn't built in a day."
29
One day a teacher asked one of his pupils:
"Which is more important, the sun or the moon?"
"The moon is more important than the sun because it shines at night when it is dark while the sun shines in the day-time when nobody wants it," was the answer.
30
Teacher: Now, Andy, tell me which month has twenty-eight days. 
Andy (after thinking for a while): They all have, sir.
31
Teacher (looking over Teddy's homework): I don't see how it's possible for a single person to make so many mistakes.
Teddy (proudly): It isn't a single person, sir. Father helped me 
32
Teacher: Robert, what is a synonym?
Robert: It's a word we use in place of another when we cannot spell the other one.
33
Willie: Papa, why do they call our language mother-tongue? 
Father: Well, just see who uses it most.
34
Teacher: Can you tell me anything about the great chemists of the 17th century?
Pupil (after thinking for some time): They are all dead, sir.
35
Willie: Teacher says we're here to help the others.
Father: Of course we are.
Willie: What are the others here for?
36
Teacher: Are you sure that the story you told me is original? 
Pupil: Certainly it is.
Teacher: Great heavens! To think that I would live to see the day when I would meet Rudyard Kipling!
37
Freddy: Pa, I must tell you something now. I'm sure you'll happy to learn it.
Father: Well, out with it, Freddy.
Freddy: You won't have to get me any new books next year. 
Father: Why so?
Freddy: I'll stay another year in the fifth form.
out with it - выкладывай
38
Teacher: Your English exercises are always better than your French ones. Can you explain why it is so?
Pupil: Yes, I can. It's because my Mummy doesn't know French.
39
Pete: Don't be angry with me, Daddy. I'm very sorry that I've got a two in arithmetic.
Father: How could it happen? Did you understand the teacher's question?
Pete: Of course I did. It is he who didn't understand my answer.
40
Teacher: So you can't do a simple sum in arithmetic. Now let me explain it to you. Eight of you have together forty-eight apples, and seventy-nine pears. Now what would each of you get? Pupil: Cholera
cholera [kolǝrǝ] холера
41
Father: Well, Bobby, I've talked to your teacher today. He doesn't like your work at home and in class. Now I want to ask you a question. Who is the laziest person in your class? 
Bobby: I don't know, Father.
Father (angrily): Oh, yes, you do. Think! When all the boys and girls are reading or writing, who sits in the class and only watches how other people work?
Bobby (happily): It's our teacher, Father.
42
The teacher wrote on the blackboard: 5+7= "Now find the sum," said the teacher to a pupil. "Why me? I didn't lose it," answered the boy.
43
"Our teacher of literature talks to herself. Does yours?" asked Andy.
"Yes, he does," answered his friend, "but he doesn't realize it. He thinks we're listening to him."
44
Two brothers were invited by their aunt to spend their holiday in the country. The aunt told them that she would be glad to have only one of them as her house was too small for both. Soon one of the brothers arrived and was asked by the aunt how he and his brother had decided who was to come.
"We tossed for it," the boy answered.
"Oh, indeed," said the aunt, "and you, of course, were the winner?"
"Oh, no," answered the boy. "I lost."
to toss for smth - бросить жребий
45
"Tom, did you tell the teacher that I helped you to do your homework?"
"Certainly, Jane."
'And what did he say?"
"He told me he couldn't give me a 'two' for my friend's mistakes."
46
Teacher: Which is nearer to us, America or the moon? 
Pete: Of course the moon, sir.
Teacher (in surprise): Why do you think so?
Pete: I think so because we can see the moon but we can't see America.
47
The teacher said:
"I think you know, children, that the earth goes round the sun." 
Then Nick got up and asked:
"And what does the earth do at night when there's no sun?"
48
During a break Mary came up to her teacher and asked him: 
"May I go home earlier today as my sister wants me to go shopping?"
"Of course not," answered the teacher.
"Thank you very much, sir," said Mary.
49
Teacher: Why are you late, Bob?
Bob: It was late, sir, when I started from home.
Teacher: Then why didn't you start early?
Bob: I didn't do it because it was too late to start early.
50
Teacher: You are late for the lessons again, Ted. Why are you late today?
Ted: I'm sorry. I overslept.
Teacher: Oh! Do you sleep at home as well?
51
In a London school a teacher gave the following composition to his pupils: 
"Imagine yourselves to be the managers of big factories and write about your working day.'
Everybody started writing except one boy. The teacher came up to him and asked:
"Why are you doing nothing?"
"I'm waiting for my secretary," answered the boy.
manager ['mænidзə] управляшший
52
At a lesson of history a teacher asked one of his pupils: "In which of his battles did General Wolf cry, 'We won and I die happy'?"
"It was in his last battle, sir," answered the pupil.
battle ['bætl] — битва
53
"What is an abstract noun, Margaret?"
"I'm afraid I don't know."
"Well, you should know. I've told you again and again. It's something one can think of but can't touch. Now, give me an example, please."
"Boiling water."
to boil кипеть
54
Teacher: How many fingers do you have?
Bobbie: Ten, sir.
Teacher: Well, if four fingers were missing, what would you have then?
Bobbie (happily): No music lessons.
to miss не хватать, недоставать
55
Teacher (to a new boy): What's your name, my little fellow? 
New boy: Erbert Arris.
Teacher: Always say "sir", please, when you are speaking to teachers. It's more polite.
New boy (apologetically): Sir Erbert Arris.
polite [pǝ'lait] вежливый
apologetically [ǝ,polǝ'dzetikǝlı] извиняющимся тоном
56
Teacher: How old is the person who was born in 1951? 
Pupil: Please, sir, is it a man or a woman?
57
"I wish," said an anxious mother to her lazy son, "I wish you would pay a little attention to your arithmetic.'
"Well I do," was the reply, "I pay as little attention as possible."
Anxious обеспокоенный
58
Teacher: What do we get from sheep?
Boy: Wool.
Teacher: And what do we get from wool?
Boy: I don't know.
Teacher: Then I'll help you. Well, what is your coat made of? 
Boy: My coat was made from my father's coat.
59
Mother: I really don't know what to do with you. You can't count at all. Listen to me and try to divide correctly. If I take a potato and divide it into two parts, then into four parts, and each of the four parts into two parts, what will I have?
Little Amy: Potato salad.
60
Teacher (to Jim): Spell the word "cigarette".
Jim: Well, my Pa doesn't let me smoke, and I don't think he'd like me to spell it.
61
A teacher asked one pupil whether he would prefer one-sixth or one-seventh of a lemon.
"I would prefer one-seventh, sir," answered the boy. 
"One-seventh?" inquired the teacher and began to explain that though the fraction sounded larger, it was really the smaller of the two.
"I know that, sir," answered the pupil. "That's why I chose it. I don't like lemons!"
fraction - дробь
62
Mother (coming up to her little boy who is crying bitterly): Why are you crying, Tom?
Tom: The tea... the teacher kept me after lessons for something I didn't do.
Mother (in great surprise): Something you didn't do? But what was it?
Tom: My... my lessons.
63
Little Jack spent his first day at school and returned disappointed.
"What did you learn?" was his aunt's question.
"We didn't learn anything," replied the boy.
"Well, what did you do in that case?"
"We didn't do anything. There was a woman who didn't know how to spell some very simple words and I told her."
disappointed [disə'pointıd] - разочарованный
64
Father: You know that Mother is very angry when you get bad marks at school.
Son: It's not me to blame, for it's the teacher who gives me bad marks.
It's not me to blame Я не виноват
65
Teacher: Oxygen is necessary for life. Nothing could live without oxygen. It was discovered a century ago. 
Pupil: But what did they do before it was discovered?
oxygen ['oksidzǝп] - кислород
66
During vacation time a schoolboy made up his mind to write a letter to his friend. He sat down at his writing-table and wrote: "Dear Bill!" He thought a bit and continued: "I'm writing to you because I have nothing to do." After that he thought a great deal and added at last: "I'm afraid I must stop writing to you because I have nothing to say. Yours truly, Tom Brown."
67
Teacher: Where did Admiral Nelson win his last victory? 
Pupil: On page 127.
68
Uncle: Well, Jimmy, have you gained any prizes at school? 
Jimmy: No, sir, the other fellows have got them all.
Uncle: But you'll keep on trying, my boy, won't you?
Jimmy: What's the use of trying when the other fellows keep on doing the same?
to gain a prize получить приз
to keep on doing smth продолжать делать что-л.
69
A schoolmaster keeps his young pupils waiting for him in the library. When at last he comes in, he finds one of the boys busy reading. The book which he is reading happens to be a dictionary. "How do you like your book, my boy?" the teacher asks him smiling.
"I find the stories very fine indeed," says the boy ready to please his master, "in spite of their being very short."
in spite of their being несмотря на то, что они
70
Father (addressing his son): Did you take that letter to Mr. Smith? 
Son: Yes, Pa, but I don't know what good it is to write to poor Mr. Smith. He's blind.
Father (in surprise): Blind! I never knew that. It must be some sudden affliction that has recently overtaken him. How did you find it out?
Son: Well, he asked me twice where my hat was when I was in his office and it was on my head all the time.
blind - слепой
affliction несчастье
71
Pupil: Dear sir! Thank you very much, I owe you everything I know.
Teacher: Oh, not at all. Don't mention such a trifle.
to owe [ou] - зд. быть обязанным (кому-либо чем-либо)
72
The teacher stood with his back to the fireplace on a winter morning. He decided to give good advice to the pupils before starting the lesson: "Before you speak, think. Count fifty before you say anything important."
The lips of the pupils began to move in unison, and suddenly they burst out in chorus: "Ninety-nine, one hundred. Your coat tails are on fire, sir."
fireplace  - камин 
in unison ['ju:nızn] в унисон
coat tails фалды фрака
73
Schoolboy: Ma, where's that shirt of mine which I left on the chair last night?
Mother: I've just washed it.
Schoolboy: Oh, Ma, how could you! The whole history of England was on those cuffs.
cuff - манжета
74
"Well, John," said his father, "is the teacher quite satisfied with you?"
"Oh, yes, Father. Quite."
"Why? Did he tell you so?"
"Yes. The other day he said to me, 'If all my pupils were like you, I should shut my school today.' That shows I know enough."
the other day — на днях
75
Jackie's father did not allow him to stay in the playground after school hours. He said Jackie must come straight home. But one day Jackie forgot about it and came home late very dirty and very tired.
"Look here," said his father angrily, "didn't you promise me that you wouldn't stay out and play games?"
"Yes, Father," was the answer.
"And didn't I promise to punish you if you stayed out?"
"Yes, Father," said Jackie, "but as I didn't keep my promise, why should you keep yours?"
to allow [ə'lau] разрешать
to keep one's promise ['promis] — сдержать обещание
